---
editLink: false
---

> See [commit history](https://github.com/pegjs/pegjs/compare/0.6.2...v0.7.0) for a full list of changes.

## v0.7.0 _(April 18, 2012)_

### Big Changes

* Added ability to pass options to `PEG.buildParser`.
* Implemented the `trackLineAndColumn` option for `PEG.buildParser` (together with the `--track-line-and-column` command-line option). It makes the generated parser track line and column during parsing. These are made available inside actions and predicates as `line` and `column` variables.
* Implemented the `cache` option for `PEG.buildParser` (together with the `--cache` command-line option). This option enables/disables the results cache in generated parsers, resulting in dramatic speedup when the cache is disabled (the default now). The cost is breaking the linear parsing time guarantee.
* The current parse position is visible inside actions and predicates as the `offset` variable.
* Exceptions thrown by the parser have `offset`, `expected` and `found` properties containing machine-readable information about the parse failure (based on a patch by Marcin Stefaniuk).
* Semantic predicates have access to preceding labels. [[GH-69](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/69)]
* Implemented case-insensitive literal and class matching. [[GH-34](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/34)]
* Rewrote the code generator — split some computations into separate passes and based it on a proper templating system (Codie).
* Rewrote variable handling in generated parsers in a stack-like fashion, simplifying the code and making the parsers smaller and faster.
* Adapted to Node.js 0.6.6+ (no longer supported in older versions).
* Dropped support for IE < 8.
* As a result of several optimizations, parsers generated by 0.7.0 are ~6.4 times faster and ~19% smaller than those generated by 0.6.2 (as reported by `/tools/impact`).

### Small Changes

* Fixed reported error position when part of the input is not consumed. [[GH-48](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/48)]
* Fixed incorrect disjunction operator in `computeErrorPosition` (original patch by Wolfgang Kluge).
* Fixed regexp for detecting command-line options in `/bin/pegjs`. [[GH-51](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/51)]
* Generate more efficient code for empty literals (original patch by Wolfgang Kluge).
* Fixed comment typos (patches by Wolfgang Kluge and Jason Davies). [[GH-59](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/59)]
* Fixed a typo in JavaScript example grammar. [[GH-62](https://github.com/dmajda/pegjs/issues/62)]
* Made copy & paste inclusion of the PEG.js library into another code easier by changing how the library is exported.
* Improved the copyright comment and the “Generated by...” header.
* Replaced `Jakefile` with `Makefile`.
* Added `make hint` task that checks all JavaScript files using JSHint and resolved all issues it reported. All JavaScript files and also generated parsers are JSHint-clean now.
* Fixed output printed during test failures (expected value was being printed instead of the actual one). Original patch by Wolfgang Kluge.
* Added a `/tools/impact` script to measure speed and size impact of commits.
* Various generated code improvements and fixes.
* Various internal code improvements and fixes.
* Improved `README.md`.
